Demonstrator Meeting 3

03/02/2011
3pm-3.30pm 


Present: 

Kat (demonstrator) 

Charles Horrell (secretary)
Yukunk Wang

Apologies

Joss Greenway (team leader) - Ill
Jeremiah Via - Ill



Summary:

During this meeting we were given general feedback on our specifications. A major issue raised was the standard of scientific and formal english as well as issues with grammar. We were informed that unless this was improved in the final report it could loose us significant marks. Also raised was the lack of updating the weekly work logs. It was stressed these should be updated every week before the meeting with kat. Some clarification was required for Yukun on the non use of the waterfall model as we are using an agile approach. We were also told to finally decided which networking strategy we were going to use.  Otherwise feedback on the specification was generally positive. We were also encouraged to produce a weekly report for all future demonstrator meetings. 

I raised the issue of the lack of details on the subversion assement. We were advised as we had well over 60 revisions already we did not need to worry about it for now. 

Action decided upon:

Charlie: Fill missing team members in on meeting, produce weekly report. 




signed 

Charlie (secretary) 